Alan Turing was a mathmatical genius and his work were crucial to break Germany's military code. His work shortened the conflict and his brilliance made him the father of modern computing.
But his work was recognized only in 2019, after almost 70 years from his death. His scientific career started in 1931, during the 1930s he produced several papers that laid the foundations for the development of modern computers.
In 1938, Turing started working at Bletchley Park, the centre of Britain's codebreaking operations. After the war broke out, Turing led a team to break German cyphers. This involved find the key for Germany's Eninga machine, the greatest encryption device in history.
After the war Turing started wroking at the National Physical Laboratory where he designed the first stored-program compter. Then he worked at the University of Manchester where he proposed the Turing Test which was an attempt to define a standard which would detrmine if a computer could think. This test consisted of a conversation between a human and two interlocutors, another human and a computer. If the human cold not tell the machine from the human, then the machine would have passed the test.
In 1952, Turing was prosectued for homosexual acts, which where illegal back then and he underwent a cource of hormonal injections and chemical castration. In 1954 he was found dead in an apparent suicide and after sixty years the British government apologized for his behaviour.

In order to be able to decipher communications, British intelligence need to find profiles of trustworthy people with mathmatical and computing skills to decipher codes. In the early years of the war the codebreakers were few in number and elite in status. In the early years only the main grup stayed at the main house of Bletchley Park but as the operation gained momentum the codebreakers could not handle the workload alone. More of nine thosand people joined Bletchley and to accomodate all of these poeple, wooden huts were built. One of the biggest success of Bletchley Park was the development of the Bombe machine to decrypt Enigma messages.
What happened during wartime inside Bletchley Park remained classified until mid-70s and there were rumors that all fo the classified information had been destroyed after the World War Two. In 1990s historian began to gain access to these files and some former staff began to give testimony.

Life at Bletchley Park was not easy, the staff worked long, there were days with short breaks in uncomfortable conditions but they continued working because the codebreaking operations were understood to be essential.
Bletchley Park, originally was a mediaeval estate and was the home of the Leon family. This was a very importand estate because it was very important for the local economy. But in the late 1930s both of the Leons have died and they sell the estate to a local property developer who then sold it to the Secret Intelligence Service or M16.
Bletchley Park goes back to the 1880s. The Leons had a habit of going away on holiday, seeing a bit of architectre they like the look of and getting their builders to graft it onto the estate. For this reason many people who worked at Bletchley Park found it very unfashionable.

The advantage of Bletchley Park is that people are working out the original wartime buildings. Many of the wartime codebreaking buildings, the original huts where The Enigma cypher was being worked on, still survive.
As operations at Bletchley Park grew, it came more difficult to keep things secret, so the M16 hired people on a need-to-know basis. Basically, in the codebreaking operations, they chopped the codebreaking tasks and people performed the assigned task. In this way, all the staff know only a small part of the operation and not the entire process and that's how secrecy was maintained.

In 2014 the film 'The Imitation Game' popped out and it's a biography of Alan Turing, the name of the film is based on the Turing Test used to establish if a machine could think.
