Topology is the study of shapes without measurements. Identical shapes can result in different meanings, for example, in geometry two shapes are identical if they have the same lenghts and angles and if one shape can be transformed, through translation, rotation or reflection, into the other. In topology, a pair of shapes is identical if one can be deformed into the other by stretching, bending, or squeezing without cutting, tearing or creating new holes.
For this reason, topology is called "rubber-sheet geometry".
From the time of Euclid, the purpose of geometry was classifying shapes by their lengths and angles. As time passed by, between 18th and 19th century, mathematicians thought about geometric objects differently, they started considering the global properties of shapes beyond the confines of lines and angles. The most influent mathematician in this field was Henri Poincare' who used complex topology to throw new light on the shape of the Universe itself.
In 1750, Leonhard Euler has made public his work on a formula for polyhedra that involved their vertices, edges, and faces rather than lines and angles. This formula is knowns as Euler's polyhedral formula: V + F - E = 2 wher V represents the number of vertices, F the number of faces and E the number of edges.
So Euler, with his formula, argued that all polyhedra had the same base charateristics but some years later, in 1813 another mathematician, Simone L'Huilier, noted that Euler's formula wasn't true for polyhedra with holes and for non-convex polyhedra.
The term topology, derived from the greek "topos", meaning "a place", was introduced to the mathmatical world in 1847 by a German mathmatician, Johann Listing, who was interested in shapes that did not satisfy Euler's formula. Around the same period, another German mathmatician, Bernhard Riemann, devised new geometrical coordinate systems that extend beyond the limits of the 2-D and 3-D allowing mathematicians to explore shapes in four dimensions or higher, including seemingly impossible shapes.
The shape of the Universe has long been a source of speculation. The Universe shape appears to be a 3-D surface bt to make sense of its shape we need to go into four dimensions. A starting point for understand the shape of the Universe would be to imagine that we inhabit a nniverse that is a 3-D surfaces embedded within four dimensions, and to go further yo could consider that it's 3-D shape is a sphere embedded in a 4-D space.
In 1904, Henri Poincare' proposed the Poincare' conjecture: "every simply connected, closed 3-manifold is homeomorphic to the 3-sphere". A 3-manifold is a shape that appears 3-D but exists withing higher dimentions, "simply connected" means that it has no holes. "homeomorphic" describes shapes that can be moulded into each other. To establish if the Universe doesn't contain holes you could, in theory, conduct an experiment with strings.
(Da vedere meglio questa parte)
During the 20th century topology continued to develop. A german mathmatician invented the ideda of a space who took the Euclidean spaces and generalized them to infinite dimensions. This area of mathematics is knowns as infinte-dimensional topology.
The field of topology is now vast and it has wide-ranging applications in areas such as genetics and molecular biology.
